Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: tools/pot/docs/DefaultQuantizationUsage.md

@endsphinxdirective

## Introduction

> This guide describes how to apply model quantization with the Default Quantization method, without accuracy control using an unannotated dataset. To use this method, you need to create a Python script using an API of Post-Training Optimization Tool (POT), and implement data preparation logic and quantization pipeline. If you are not familiar with Python, you can try [command-line interface](@ref pot_compression_cli_README) of POT which is designed to quantize models from OpenVINO [Model Zoo](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/open_model_zoo). The figure below shows the common workflow of the quantization script implemented with POT API.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide describes how to apply model quantization with the Default Quantization method without accuracy control, using an unannotated dataset. To use this method, you need to create a Python script using an API of Post-Training Optimization Tool (POT) and implement data preparation logic and quantization pipeline. If you are not familiar with Python, try [command-line interface](@ref pot_compression_cli_README) of POT which is designed to quantize models from OpenVINO [Model Zoo](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/open_model_zoo). The figure below shows the common workflow of the quantization script implemented with POT API.
```

![](./images/default_quantization_flow.png)

The script should include three basic steps:
1. Prepare data and dataset interface.
2. Select quantization parameters.
3. Define and run quantization process.

## Prepare data and dataset interface

> In most cases, it is required to implement only `openvino.tools.pot.DataLoader` interface which allows acquiring data from a dataset and applying model-specific pre-processing providing access by index. Any implementation should override the following methods: 

Author: ```suggestion
In most cases, it is required to implement only the `openvino.tools.pot.DataLoader` interface, which allows acquiring data from a dataset and applying model-specific pre-processing providing access by index. Any implementation should override the following methods: 
```

- The `__len__()`, returns the size of the dataset.

> - The `__getitem__()`, provides access to the data by index in range of 0 to `len(self)`. It also can encapsulate the logic of model-specific pre-processing. This method should return data in `(data, annotation)` format, in which:

Author: ```suggestion
- The `__getitem__()`, provides access to the data by index in range of 0 to `len(self)`. It can also encapsulate the logic of model-specific pre-processing. This method should return data in the `(data, annotation)` format, in which:
```

>    * The `data` is the input that is passed to the model at inference so that it should be properly preprocessed. It can be either `numpy.array` object or dictionary, where the key is the name of the model input and value is `numpy.array` which corresponds to this input.

Author: ```suggestion
   * The `data` is the input that is passed to the model at inference so that it should be properly preprocessed. It can be either the `numpy.array` object or a dictionary, where the key is the name of the model input and value is `numpy.array` which corresponds to this input.
```

   * The `annotation` is not used by the Default Quantization method. Therfore, this object can be `None` in this case.
  

> Framework data loading classes can be wrapped by `openvino.tools.pot.DataLoader` interface which is usually straightforward. For example, `torch.utils.data.Dataset` has a similar interface as `openvino.tools.pot.DataLoader`, so that its TorchVision implementations can be easily wrapped by POT API.

Author: ```suggestion
Framework data loading classes can be wrapped by the `openvino.tools.pot.DataLoader` interface which is usually straightforward. For example, the `torch.utils.data.Dataset` has a similar interface as the `openvino.tools.pot.DataLoader`, so that its TorchVision implementations can be easily wrapped by POT API.
```

> > **NOTE**: Model-specific preprocessing (for example, mean/scale normalization), can be embedded into the model at the conversion step using Model Optimizer component. This should be considered during the implementation of the DataLoader interface to avoid "double" normalization which can lead to the loss of accuracy after optimization.

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Model-specific preprocessing (for example, mean/scale normalization), can be embedded into the model at the conversion step, using Model Optimizer component. This should be considered during the implementation of the DataLoader interface to avoid "double" normalization, which can lead to the loss of accuracy after optimization.
```

> Below code example defines `DataLoader` for three popular use cases: images, text, and audio:

Author: ```suggestion
The example code below defines the `DataLoader` for three popular use cases, such as images, text, and audio:
```

    },
}
```  

> - The `"target_device"` - only two options are currently available: 

Author: ```suggestion
- The `target_device` - only two options are currently available: 
```

>   * The `"ANY"` (or `"CPU"`) -  to quantize model for CPU, GPU, or VPU.

Author: ```suggestion
  * The `ANY` (or `CPU`) -  to quantize a model for CPU, GPU, or VPU.
```

>   * The `"GNA"` - for inference on GNA.

Author: ```suggestion
  * The `GNA` - for inference on GNA.
```

> - The `"stat_subset_size"` - size of data subset to calculate activations statistics used for quantization. The whole dataset is used if no parameter specified. It is recommended to use not less than 300 samples.

Author: ```suggestion
- The `stat_subset_size` - size of a data subset to calculate activations statistics used for quantization. The whole dataset is used if no parameter is specified. It is recommended to use not less than 300 samples.
```

> For full specification of the Default Quantization method, see this [document](@ref pot_compression_algorithms_quantization_default_README).

Author: ```suggestion
For full specification, see the the [Default Quantization method](@ref pot_compression_algorithms_quantization_default_README).
```

## Run quantization

> POT API provides its own methods to load and save model objects from OpenVINO Intermediate Representation: `load_model` and `save_model`. It also has a concept of `Pipeline` that sequentially applies specified optimization methods to the model. The `create_pipeine` method is used to instantiate a `Pipeline` object.

Author: ```suggestion
POT API provides methods to load and save model objects from OpenVINO Intermediate Representation: the `load_model` and `save_model`. It also has a concept of the `Pipeline` that sequentially applies specified optimization methods to the model. The `create_pipeline` method is used to instantiate a `Pipeline` object.
```

from openvino.tools.pot import compress_model_weights
from openvino.tools.pot import create_pipeline

> # Model config specifies the model name and paths to model .xml and .bin file.

Author: ```suggestion
# Model config specifies the name of the model and paths to .xml and .bin files of the model.
```

    }
]

> # Step 1: Implement and create user data loader.

Author: ```suggestion
# Step 1: Implement and create a user data loader.
```

data_loader = ImageLoader("<path_to_images>")

> # Step 2: Load model.

Author: ```suggestion
# Step 2: Load a model.
```

The output of the script is the quantized model that can be used for inference in the same way as the original full-precision model.

> If accuracy degradation is high after applying the Default Quantization method, it is recommended to follow tips from [Quantization Best Practices](@ref pot_docs_BestPractices) document or use [Accuracy-aware Quantization](@ref pot_accuracyaware_usage) method.

Author: ```suggestion
If the high degradation of accuracy occurs after applying the Default Quantization method, it is recommended to follow the tips from [Quantization Best Practices](@ref pot_docs_BestPractices) article or use [Accuracy-aware Quantization](@ref pot_accuracyaware_usage) method.
```

## Quantizing cascaded models

> In some cases, when the optimizing model is a cascaded model (i.e. consists of several submodels, for example, MT-CNN), you will need to implement a complex inference pipeline that can properly handle different submodels and data flow between them. POT API provides an `Engine` interface for this purpose which allows customization of the inference logic. However, more recommended is inheriting from `IEEngine` helper class that already contains all the logic required to do the inference based on OpenVINO Python API. For more details, see the following [example](@ref pot_example_face_detection_README).

Author: ```suggestion
In some cases, when the optimized model is a cascaded model (it consists of several submodels, for example, MT-CNN), you will need to implement a complex inference pipeline that can properly handle different submodels and data flow between them. POT API provides the `Engine` interface for this purpose, which allows customization of the inference logic. However, it is recommended to inherit from `IEEngine` helper class that already contains all the logic required to do the inference based on OpenVINO Python API. For more details, see the following [example](@ref pot_example_face_detection_README).
```

We optimize models, right? ;)
